assignment 1

this was easy to program but the assets were soooo annoying. it was just me zooming into the itch.io page and alt+tabbing from there to aseprite to reference
it as closely as possible (looking at the bush and castle). everything else was fine though in terms of art

i think the challenge was the animation, i never used gml to animate a full walk cycle before so i went with this weird approach of using arrays lol

overall i think this assignment was pretty easy just a little tedious, so i tried to meticulously get as many details in as possible


------

assignment 2

this assignment was so annoying to code. i never actually used inheritance in gml so i had to use a lot of open sources and learned that "self" is actually
useful

also the clouds were so tedious and annoying. that stuff was like 20+ frames or something. i screenrecorded a video and went frame by frame in to closely reference
each frame because the animation was too fast for me to process. like i have pixel art premium (aseprite) and im still complaining i can't imagine how hard it is
using gamemaker editor rip

halfway through i realized i made my room too small which could be easily fixed with a few adjustments here and there (and i had to go on aseprite and resize
the bottom shadow) but it wasn't a relevant detail so i let it slide

i've used particles like 4 times in my life so i thought i was familiar enough with it, but this time i had to copy something to try get a super close particle
feel. it wasn't as hard as i thought and i managed to get it after a few tries so that's awesome i'm starting to like particles

------

assignment 3

i do regret doing this assignment on the last day because i had a loot of work to do this week, but anyway. i had confidence in this project because i did make another
more complicated card game on gamemaker before but this didn't seem to really work out as planned because it was so rushed i ended up spaghetti coding everything

and im looking back at this and honestly im struggling to read my own code deadass. but the art looks pretty much on par which is cool and the mechanics work 
perfectly until the comparison/discarding/reshuffling part

for this project im going to see if i can use up an extension and fix that


update: i tried using the debugger and after a lot of tries, i couldn't find what caused the glitch so i'll just turn in the project. i was able to get one card
to properly discard after being played but idk where the other ones were coming from and it just didn't make sense

--------

assignment 4

im actually glad this is a project because i was able to add things w creative liberty so yayy!! so i had a bunch of pixel art OCs i drew recently for a passion project
so i imported those and animated their body parts using GML draw to make them move, then i created the little mini-pixel art sprites for all of them and gave them idle animations

i used aseprite to draw everything, and freesound.org/youtube royalty free audio for sfx! the story is relatively simple but i tried adding as much detail as possible,
such as interactions for all cases. if you press space next to both girls, they have a little musing. if you press on them before getting chocolate (you have to be
close), they react to you presenting your cult advertisement to them. you have to trigger the office-siren looking girl's reaction before you can buy chocolate.
if you press on the doctor after getting chocolate, she'll sorta insult you, but if you press on the office siren girl, she'll be super happy and you basically win

the story is super simple, silly and stupid, kind of like the little narrative games i used to make on scratch as a teenager :) 

making the idle animations was a little challenging for me bc i wouldn't consider myself the best animator, but they turned out cute so im pretty happy.
also i made the cultist's sprite too large on accident, and it felt like too much work to redo him so i just scaled him down, but i'm using this as a lesson
to always compare relative sizes 



